---
title: A Look At PokéMMO

tags:
  - Games
  - PokéMMO
  - MMO
  - Review

redirect_from: 
  - /wordpress/2015-04-25/media/games/pokemmo
  - https://www.0xreki.de/wordpress/2015-04-25/media/games/pokemmo

checker:
  - lt

long: true
seo_meta_fix: 1

excerpt: |
  What can I say except I was bored.
  I was looking for a MMO which even runs with Linux.
  Well, I found PokéMMO.
  I had already tried several implementation of PokéMon as MMO and had always been disappointed by them.
  Nonetheless, I tried it out.
---
*This post was originally published on 2015-04-25 on rekislife.de which has since moved then moved here.*

What can I say except I was bored.
I was looking for a MMO which even runs with Linux.
Well, I found [PokéMMO](https://pokemmo.eu){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.
I had already tried several implementations of PokéMon as MMO and had always been disappointed by them.
Nonetheless, I tried it out.

After downloading the client, the first thing it says was I needed a ROM of PokéMon FireRed US 1.0 and optionally one of PokéMon HeartGold or SoulSilver.
OK, it may be a bother, but legally, that's reasonable.
After some time spent dumping, I could finally start playing!
(By the way, do not ask if you can get the ROM.
I will not be sharing my dumps.)

Creating a character… I'm male.
The name is 0xReki…
OK, that’s not a valid name…
Then OxReki it is!

I started out in Pallet Town.
Trying to leave town, I was stopped by Prof. Oak and got dragged to his lab.
Everything just like the handheld game.
I chose a Bulbasaur from Prof Oak.
Then I saw a player, his name was Highlander, saying he was giving out free PokéMon.
I got a Lv. 1 Bagon from him.
He said something about a batch of his breeding.
My guess was he was trying to get a shiny one, or IV breeding.
Not that I care, I'm not a competitive player.
Trying to get out, I had to battle my NPC rival, who I named Green.
Having two PokéMon and one being a Bagon with Dragon Rage, the battle against Green's Charmander was… easy.
(For those who aren't familiar with PokéMon: Dragon Rage does fixed damage of 40 HP; PokéMon of Lv. 5 usually only have 10 to 20 HP.)

The game itself is well-made.
Battles are shown on an overlay.
Many animations are still missing, and most trainers don't stop you when you walk past them.
(You can't skip the first gym, though.)
You can even have a PokéMon following you if you have a HeartGold or SoulSilver ROM!
After making my way to Pewter City I still haven't figured out, which location table the server uses or rather which combination of sets.
If you know, please tell me!

After so many disappointments with PokéMon MMOs, I finally found one I liked.
I'd rank it with 9 out of 10.
If I could actually delete my character to start over, I’d give 10 out of 10.

I'd better continue playing, my friend is complaining about the Lavender Town theme.
