---
title: What's Most Important for Software?

published: false

long: true

tags:
  - Riichi Mahjong

image: /blog/images/2021-07-20-daisharin.avif
image_alt: Not a standard hand, but Big Wheels seems to be quite popular.

---
So I've recently switched from Windows 10 to Arch Linux as my main OS.
It's perfect for me, but I'm also a techie: I can customize my setup however I like.
WINE and Proton development got quite far recently, so I can still play my games.
If they need some fixes, I can tweak some settings, but I'm also a techie: I fiddle around with the settings until the game runs.
Well, I do still have some problems with getting my camera to work, but that will eventually run when drivers are updated.
I need to do smaller automation?
I can simply type arcane commands into a terminal and make magic happen, but I am a techie that has the knowledge to do that.

But there are non-techies out there.
People that don't have time or knowledge to tweak things.
People that want their stuff to look the same as before.
People that want to do work instead of fiddling around with stuff.
People that don't know what arcane words to type into the computer.
Yes, those people exist.
No, they aren't less intelligent.
They just decided to put more time into acquiring expertise in other domains.
Those people have different needs with their computer.
And it seems we techies like to put more distance between us and non-techies.
They need the computer to help them solve their problems, not create them.
They need simple access to the functions they need: a good search and/or putting things where they're used to finding them.

From time to time, I want to help people try out Linux, but change is scary.
Luckily, in 2019, Kali Linux released Kali Undercover, scripts that change an existing Xfce4 to look like a typical Windows 10.
Nice, I thought, now I just need a Linux boot splash screen that looks like a Windows one, and I can try giving it to a non-techie to try out.
Yes, if they are only using basic stuff like browsing, chatting and mailing, they won't notice the difference.
But I will have less work when the system is set to automatic updates.
Of course, I ran into a very vocal group, that were against the very splash screen I was looking for.
Linux were for people that want freedom from Windows, and anyone making their setup to mimic or Windows software were undermining the integrity of that very freedom.
WINE and Proton were things the GNU/Linux community should not support.

Wanting to ease people into transitioning to a Linux apparently is not an accepted argument in the community.
While Kali Undercover was spared from this outcry, their official reasoning is to make it harder to spot pentesters.
But using it to introduce less technologically adept people to using Linux, is a forbidden use case!
How dare I suggest using that for such a heretic purpose?!
Those people need the culture shock, their inferior proprietary software they know how to use taken away and replaced with new superior free software they don't know how to use.
Only then will they convert to believe in free software!!

Of course, the splash screen got removed after a while.
Not because of copyright issues, because they didn't want to deal with the mob.
This just emphasizes the notion of Linux users to be hardcore techies that prefer technology over humans.
The notion, Linux users all feel superior over the lowly sheep that still use Windows or even macOS!! Oh, the horror!

While it's a nice thing lots of Linux software gets ports for Windows, so more people can enjoy it, in many cases, bugs in the ports are almost never considered worth looking into.
Yes, the devs are less likely to use Windows, but it again emphasizes what people see: Linux users see Windows users as lesser beings.
I eventually stopped even trying to reporting bugs in Windows ports.
Why should I care, when 90% of all bugs for Windows I google end up in a closed “won't fix” report?
I'll just look for some proprietary software instead, it might be expensive, but I might get it working so I can do some work!

Well, it's not only the Linux fanboys, or free software fanboys for that matter.
There's some sense of entitlement in other techies, too.

They unify with the mindset, everything tech company X does is anti-consumer.
Granted, a lot of things they do is actually anti-consumer, but that doesn't mean everything they do is anti-consumer.
Hell, some people actually act like little children and distance themselves from a very needed petition, just because company X backs it!
Or other companies that sue company X for anti-trust, when X actually does something for the benefit of the consumer, the people don't applaud company X for doing the right thing, no they're just happy to hear X got sued.

To this day, I'm still waiting for a built-in package manager for Windows programs.
Microsoft wanted to make one for quite a while, but they got push back from all sides.
Just having a working package manager would help IT security quite a lot: automatic updates and less bloatware.
Why is bloatware a problem?
By not helping non-techies to avoid bloatware, we have come to train them to associate updates with bloatware, so they stop updating.
But people left and right were claiming that package manager to be anti-consumer, so the development was slowed down, and bloatware sadly is still a thing on Windows.
Granted, Windows Defender does block some bloatware-infested installers, but that just annoys the consumer that wants to install software.

Of course, for advanced users, I believe there should be a way to install software from other sources.
But the non-techie user shouldn't be denied the convenience of a package manager just because some experts don't see the need for it.
While there's still development in the Windows App Installer, it's still stuck in Insider Previews.
There's other solutions like Ninite or Chocolatey, these are not built-in, so users or administrators need to be aware of them to even make use of them.
Or they hack their own solutions.

I'm very happy about the existence of Ninite.
It has saved me lots of time when setting up Windows systems.
Chocolatey seems to have existed for a while, but this week was the first time I ever heard about it, and that's just because I was researching for this post.

Why don't I give them a Linux if I want a package manager?
Change is scary, plus there is software that you simply can't replace.
I myself only switched recently because the number of hoops I have to jump through to play the game I spend most time with is small enough and I'm a techie, that doesn't mind getting his hand dirty in the depths of tweaks and settings.
And even now, I have a way back prepared, since I don't know if compatibility will break or not.
Before I give a non-techie a Linux system, everything they use needs to run out-of-the-box, no arcane magic from my side.

I want us, the techies think a bit of the non-techies when we make and do stuff.
As much as I like Linux, in many cases, it's still not that user-friendly.
Don't get me wrong, it's gotten a lot better in the last 10 years, and I hope it will still improve.
I don't want advanced functionality to be scrapped, I want beginner functions to be actually beginner-friendly.
But that will only happen, if we techies don't insist on scaring away non-techies with condescending mindset and mentioning our arcane knowledge at every opportunity.
