---
title: Bullying 
long: true

tags:
  - 
  - State of the World

#image: /blog/images/2022-02-ox.jpg
#image_alt: FFXIV Heavensturn Ox Event

#seo_title_fix: 3

#excerpt: |
#  A new year, a new tournament!
#  This time, it's on the weekend of the Lunar New Year!
#  This is the seventh Doman Mahjong Tournament on Light, feel free to make an alt to join.
#  As before, this tournament is a player event: it is not affiliated with FFXIV etc.
---
Yes, this post is about bullying.
And I don't even know where to start with this one.
There are so many symptoms that show that, apparently, bullying has become an integral of modern society.
It keeps happening, and any kind of stereotypes and discrimination just make it easier to happen.

It's always the same: the bully always says it's a joke.
Or even worse they blame it on the victim, they are not being part of the mass.
Even much worse is when authorities side with the bully, acting upon rumours or “just following rules” when the bullied one snaps and tries to defend themselves with the only thing they have: their own hands.
Is it still just a joke?
Remember: to the one being bullied, it's dead serious!

There have been some Anime that feature excluded or even bullied people.
And what I can see from comments about those Anime, people haven't changed: the majority doesn't even try to understand the protagonist at all.
It's just an awkward character, and whatever action they took in the story, it's perceived as the wrong move, and it's entirely their own fault they acted like that.
It's illogical, or too passive, or too violent.
What you don't see, is how those people actually feel.
You just blindly join the bullies and claim it's the bullied's own fault.
With such comments, you just openly show how much you don't care or are content with participating in bullying.

People that get bullied eventually end up with this thought: “I'd do anything to make it stop.”
And at that point, your logic just derails.
I know from experience.
That thought can mean you'd do anything to be part of the group.
Desperately trying to be cool, maybe breaking some rules and possibly getting on the bad side of authorities, all for just maybe being able to be one of the group.

But that thought can also mean thinking about suicide.
Yes, ending your own life just to make it stop.
Hell can't be worse than this!
Looking back, there have been days at school, where I was looking at a window and thought how much would it hurt if I hurled myself out of the third floor?
Would that result in me being in a worse state than I am now?
Or that railway bridge?
Sure, I might have to into that quarter of town I was told never to go into, but if I'm dead after that, who are they going to ground?

It's been years, and I don't even remember who did what and when.
One thing I can still remember: there was a teacher that thought I was extorted by a certain guy two heads bigger than I was.
Sure, he was initially part of the group in grade 5 that took part in bullying me until one day I snapped and tried to punch him, yelling in tears I did not care he'd have an easy time knocking me out, but I was angry, and I was definitely going to punch him even if it meant he'd beat daylights out of me.
I might have even blurted out my suicidal thought, but I don't remember, all I can remember is he didn't even touch me, instead he just gave me his hand, apologizing.
I got a long with him a lot better after that.
He was a chill guy, but with me being a nerdy Asian guy, I wasn't a good fit for his clique, which was the group that was getting in relationship and publicly kissing.

And the bullying stopped, at least it was for a while.
Oh, by the way, it's normal here for people to stay in the same class over the years.
At least it was in Bavaria when I was still in school.
Like, I think out of 30 people I started in grade 5 in the same class as me, at least 15 were still in my class in grade 11.
But some new people that joined the class a few years later and somehow decided to target me.
Given I was still a loner, I guess it was kinda my own fault?
It was never as bad as it was in the 5th grade.
But I digress, anyway, the bullying completely stop when my class discovered bullying teachers that don't show competency in teaching is much more fun!
It's not a solution, and I wasn't going to risk getting bullied again by stepping in between.

Looking back, I think I just got lucky.
Still, school is not a definitely not a time I fondly remember.
